The act of translation poses an interesting question of whether speakers choose to apply the grammar, syntax, and intuition of their native language to a novel language, or if they exhibit a deeper understanding of linguistic structure that can be generalized more broadly than what is exhibited in a single language. In “Language learners privilege structured meaning over surface frequency,” Jennifer Culbertson and David Adger explore which of these two learning methods people prefer. This study investigates whether a surface or structural knowledge of English is used to infer syntactic properties of a new language. In opposition of recent claims supporting surface-level distributions, Culbertson & Adger posit that we instead employ rules more related to hierarchical scope. The study presents some strong claims backed by ample relevant evidence, but some of their experimental methodology has room for even more definitive results.
In their study, Culbertson & Adger tested 160 native English-speaking adults through an online crowd-sourcing service to determine their preferences on ordering nominal modifiers when learning a language (Culbertson & Adger, 5). In particular, experiments tested the relative ordering of demonstratives (Dem), numerals (Num), and adjectives (Adj) when translating between English prenominal modifier phrases and a new language using the same English lexicon but with modifiers in the postnominal position. Two experiments were conducted, both in which training was similar: participants were shown two word English phrases of the form Modifier-N (Mod-N) and would hear the translation into the form N-Mod. Training phrases consisted of only one modifier to be intentionally ambiguous about the ordering of multiple modifiers so that in testing, when participants were asked to translate phrases with additional modifiers, translation would require the participant to infer the relative ordering of Dem, Num, and Adj from “impoverished evidence” (Culbertson & Adger, 3). In the first experiment, each participant trained and tested on a subset of only two of the three target modifiers; training consisted of a noun plus one of the two modifiers, and testing consisted of one and both modifiers to translate. In the second experiment, participants were trained on N-Mod phrases of all three modifier types and tested on phrases with all combinations of two modifiers and phrases with all three modifiers.
Culbertson & Adger aimed to provide evidence for one of two hypotheses: hypothesis 1 postulates a preference for the surface-level distribution of English when learning a new language, preserving the word ordering of modifiers while simply making them postnominal; hypothesis 2 postulates a preference for preserving the scope, or hierarchical constituent structure, of the phrase to produce a “scope-isomorphic” phrase when translating, where the adjective is closest to the noun, numeral the next closest, and demonstrative the furthest (i.e., translation as N-Adj-Num-Dem) (Culbertson & Adger, 3). Results of the first experiment showed that in the four tested subsets of modifiers, participants tended to prefer preserving scope over using the surface-level modifier ordering, supporting hypothesis 2. Culbertson & Adger note that the subset {Adj, Dem} demonstrated especially high correlation for scope preservation, which may be a consequence of Dem and Adj having the largest structural distance in the typical English ordering of Dem-Num-Adj. Results of the second experiment yet again strongly supported the scope-isomorphic phrases of hypothesis 2, this time distributed evenly across all phrase types (Culbertson & Adger, 3-4).
In general, Culbertson & Adger make a strong and supported claim for scope-isomorphic grammar. The simplicity in their experimental methods make a compelling case for their hypothesis; the sparsity of each training phrase initially seemed like insufficient data for learning, but with the sole intention of using the short N-Mod translation for demonstrating the new postnominal grammar, the data is just sufficient enough to leave the extrapolation of multiple modifier orderings ambiguous and up to participant intuition to infer. Culbertson & Adger were also effective in addressing potential experimental shortcomings; as they addressed in their experiment 1 findings, the slight skew in the {Dem, Adj} results may have been influenced by the structural distance between the two modifiers as opposed to their syntactic scope (Culbertson & Adger, 4). However, their intention to use experiment 2 to clear up this undesired correlation seemed effective, as their results showed that testing with all three modifiers resulted in uniform results across all types. There is also the potential pitfall of participants simply reversing given English phrases to form a translated phrase that is coincidentally identical to the scope-isomorphic phrase. Culbertson & Adger, however, do address this by noting that if participants were employing this strategy, then there would be no difference between the different subsets of modifiers in experiment 1 (Culbertson & Adger, 4).
One potential point of criticism involves the choice of adjectives used in training and testing. Upon reviewing the experiment’s lexicon (Culbertson & Adger, Supporting Information 3), one can observe that the bank of adjectives are all relatively simple and physically descriptive, and a different selection may further strengthen their hypothesis. While the effect of choosing a different subset of nouns and demonstratives is likely negligible, these visual adjectives may elicit a different interpretation than ones that are less tangible by consequence of semantic association. For example, green horse may be perceived to have a stronger adjective-noun or atomic connection than something like pensive horse, where the adjective is perhaps less visualizable and common. This closer relationship between adjective and noun may influence participants’ decision to place it closer to the noun by semantic logic rather than solely categorical reasoning. While the simplicity of the adjectival lexicon was likely chosen to prevent unnecessary confusion when parsing and translating phrases, perhaps more abstract adjectives would strengthen the argument of participants’ preference for a purely scope isomorphism by further removing the possibility of any semantic association influencing participants’ choices.
This study explores how the scopal knowledge of language is enforced over a simple surface-level distributional ordering when translating nominal phrases from a speaker’s native language. Culbertson & Adger provide ample evidence for native speakers’ inherent knowledge of hierarchical structure when learning the syntax of a new language. Their claims were strong and sufficiently supported, though there is room for improving their supporting evidence by further generalizing their choice of lexicon. While their work defends structural intuition in native English speakers, this study may be extended to include speakers of a romance language, where syntax is closer to Dem-Num-N-Adj, and the extrapolation of modifier ordering in translation may differ due to a difference in native ordering.
